It’s been a helluva ride for the Wii, so
it’s only fitting to kick off the top five...with
the game that was there from the beginning.
After a
development cycle spanning multiple years
and even multiple consoles, Twilight Princess
was finally released in 2006...the first time
ever that a Nintendo console launched with
a Zelda game.
And it wasn’t just any Zelda game.
With the sword mechanics of Wind Waker, the
darkness of Majora’s Mask and the tradition
of Ocarina, Twilight Princess was like a Hyrule
encyclopedia...a collection of all the things
that make Zelda so legendary.
It had been more than decade since Donkey
Kong had a proper platformer...or was even
relevant, really.
But with Donkey Kong Country Returns, the
ape launched back into prominence like he
was shot out of a barrel.
The culmination of the modern retro movement,
Donkey Kong Country Returns is a platforming
masterpiece.
Even after a long layoff, Kong was still King.
It’s not as isolated as Prime, it’s not
as dark as Echoes...but it plays better than
both.
In fact, few Wii games in general play as
well as Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
This game is special for a lot of reasons,
but most importantly, it proved the Wii Remote
was far more than just a gimmick.
Casting the grapple beam with the nunchuck,
turning handles with a twist and most of all,
aiming with the pointer...it’s a seamless
control experience.
And it makes you think...maybe Nintendo was
right.
It will forever be the grand irony of the
Wii that a system so maligned for being weak
would eventually host the most gorgeous video
game Nintendo had ever made.
It took Nintendo five years to have a Zelda
built from the ground up for their ground-breaking
new platform, but when they finally did...it
was unlike anything Wii owners had ever seen.
Skyward Sword’s Monet-inspired graphics
are absolutely stunning, but more importantly,
its use of MotionPlus finally delivered on
the system’s promise.
Skyward Sword is what Nintendo always wanted
Wii to be.
Nearly a quarter century after stomping his
first Koopa, Nintendo’s plumber still had
the creativity, the relevance and the sheer
magic to change video games.
The Super Mario Galaxies did for the 3D platformer
what Super Mario World did to 2D platformers.
They not only refined the established gameplay
to perfection, but they also added creative
new ideas that would turn the genre upside
down and define their console.
There have been some truly exceptional Wii
games, but none are as exceptional in nearly
every facet of their design as these two.
So for us, if the question is what’s the
best Wii game of all-time, the answer is simple...it’s